

POST FOURTEEN, May 2

Hi, everyone, another small piece of the Wari-Tigo story.

As you already know, until quite recently Kabirou was still searching for money to buy Tigo. He tried with Korea Telecom, but they too, did not like zero transparency on Wari's finances. Then he tried those "secret oil money", and happily got out of this affair without loosing 1 million USD. Only frauds are ready to finance a shady and non-transparent enterprise, losing to their competition every day...

Then in March something strange happened. Dr. Benedict Okey Oramah, President of African Export–Import Bank (Afreximbank) writes to his employees:

"I met with Mr. Kabirou , CEO of WARI  in Kigali 2 days ago . He mentioned to me that they had reached a settlement regarding the Tigo acquisition. President Marky Sal confirmed same to me.
Wari is now proposing to re- approach the Bank for support on the terms of the settlement. Please contact them to discuss further."

And then, Rene Awambeng, Global Head Client Relations of the same bank, writes further:
"I did engage Karibou and he confirmed that they would do a 50/50 deal with FREE on the Tigo acquisition."

**What?!? Seriously???** There are a lot of things we still don't know, my friends.

Now, let's see, what Kabirou was doing against Consortium in the meanwhile.
The plan is very simple and very Kabirou-like: if you don't have good arguments, intimidate your adversary and hope that he'll be scared enough. In this case, the objects of intimidation were the [Lazard investment bank](https://www.lazard.com/) and [Xavier Niel](https://www.forbes.com/profile/xavier-niel/) himself. Here's is what Kabirou's main legal counsel thought about it:

"Enfin, nous nous proposons de vous envoyer une note sur les mesures d’expertises dites in futurum (Article 145 du Code de procédure civil français). Il s’agit d’une procédure par laquelle un huissier de justice pourrait être mandaté par un juge pour aller saisir et placer sous scellé des documents concernant notre affaire chez NJJ et Lazard. Cette procédure présente des risques et il n’est pas certain que nous puissions un jour avoir accès aux documents qui auraient été mis sous scellé. Néanmoins, cette mesure pourrait avoir le mérite de faire peser une pression supplémentaire sur le Consortium pendant vos négociations avec le Gouvernement, Millicom et le Consortium."

Kabirou was going to persuade le Président du Tribunal de Commerce de PARIS that Xavier Niel and Vincent Le Stradic conspired against him, to take the Tigo from him. By now you understand already, that Kabirou simply tried to bite more than he could chew. But that's not the spirit of Kabirou )))

So we have ourselves [this document]() - a draft of request to the President of the Commercial Tribunal of Paris.
It begins decisively:
"Par la présente requête, la société Wari S.A. (ci-après Wari) sollicite de Monsieur le Président la désignation d'un huissier de justice et d'un expert informatique aux fins de recueillir les éléments susceptibles d'établir la preuve des faits de concurrence déloyale dont elle est l'objet."

The idea is that the Tribunal should send a bailiff and a technical expert to the office o Vincent Le Stradic and Xavier Niel and search there for any emails or sms, that could prove a conspiracy against Kabirou.

So why am I publishing a draft? Because, as far as I know, this idea was never fully realized. Or, even if it was, I believe, Mr. Vincent Le Stradic was quite prepared.

But why publish this at all then? Because this document, written by a brilliant lawyer from "McDermott Will & Emery" shows with perfect clearness all the weak spots in Wari's position. The comments to this document are more precious, than the document itself. Now let's see some abstracts from the doc:

{picture 1}
{picture 2}
{picture 3}
{picture 4}

The rest you can see in the document. And we'll return to this topic in the future.

<hr>

----------------------------------------------------------------------

POST FIFTEEN, May 3

Today, I'll tell you how Wari lost several hundreds of millions CFA. These slides contain a comprehensive description of a fraud scheme against Wari (French only):

{pictures}

I am attaching also an explication by the fraudster, though there's nothing new there. The funny part here is that Wari was alerted about the suspicious activity 8 months before they took any action. So they wouldn't lose so much money, if the management had actually done their job.
{picture}

Stay tuned!

<hr>

----------------------------------------------------------------------

POST SIXTEEN, May 3

Corruption a-la Senegalese

Dear Senegalese branch of the Kabirou Mbodje Fan Club, I am going to show you a blatant examples of Wari top-management corrupting the state authorities of Senegal, and I implore you to take any action necessary to make this public in Senegal.

Remember I told you about a fraud against Wari by some Blaise Kouassi? Naturally, Wari went to the police and asked to have this Blaise arrested. And here is what happened next:

{pictures}

The above is a short exchange between
- Pape Magatte Diop
- Adama Cisse
- Kabirou Mbodje.
Pape Magatte proposes, Adama supports and Kabirou approves giving a bribe of 300 000 CFA, and then another Wari employee, Mame Dior Ndiaye, is expected to carry out the actual bribing.

Usually, cases of corruption are hard to uncover and then even harder to prove, but here everything is crystal clear.

But that is only 300 000 CFA. Soon I'll share with you another example of corruption, involving a bribe of 20 million CFA, done in Togo. We'll need to invite some Togolese media to join our club.

<hr>

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Announcement
Ok, my friends. I wasn't sure we'll need it, but given the number of requests and misunderstanding about Wari' activity, I have to do it.

During the next week or two, I'm going to deploy the full copy of Wari transactions database, and then we'll start analyzing different data, statistics, with the purpose to find the scales of embezzlement that is happening at Wari.

I have full data on 2016 and 2017, this will be enough for us to find those missing money. I'll open the read-only access to everyone, hoping that together we'll find concrete proofs of embezzlement.

Will keep you posted.
